---
cssClass:
- wide
---

# `Title:` [[X-Ray Diffraction]]
--- 

- What led me here: [[Scattering Methods]]

Inlinks
```dataview 
list from [[#this.file.name]] and !outgoing([[# this.file.name]]) 
```

## X-ray Diffraction

X-ray Diffraction (XRD) is a technique used in materials science for determining the atomic and molecular structure of a crystal. It involves diffracting X-rays through the crystal lattice and using the resulting pattern of scattered X-rays to deduce the structure.

### Process of XRD

1. **X-ray Generation**: X-rays are generated by a cathode ray tube, filtered to produce monochromatic radiation, and directed towards the sample.

2. **Diffraction**: The interaction of the incident rays with the sample produces constructive interference and a diffracted ray.

3. **Detection**: The diffracted X-rays are then detected, processed and counted. Scanning the sample through a range of 2θ angles then produces a diffractogram which is a plot of the intensity of the diffracted X-rays versus the angle.

### Types of XRD

There are several types of XRD, including:

- **Powder X-ray Diffraction (PXRD)**: Used to identify crystalline phases and orientation of a single crystal.
- **Single Crystal X-ray Diffraction (SCXRD)**: Used to determine the crystal structure of a single crystal of a chemical compound.

### Applications of XRD

XRD has a wide range of applications in various fields such as geology, materials science, chemistry, and physics. It is used to identify crystalline phases and orientation, to reveal the internal structure and crystallographic orientation of prepared samples, and to determine the arrangements of atoms in a crystal and their chemical bonds.
