---
cssClass:
- wide
tags:
  - 🧪
---

# `Title:` [[EC50]]
--- 

- What led me here: [[Drug Discovery]]

Inlinks
```dataview 
list from [[#this.file.name]] and !outgoing([[# this.file.name]]) 
```

# EC50

The **EC50**, or half maximal effective concentration, is a measure used in pharmacology to indicate the concentration of a drug, antibody or toxicant which induces a response halfway between the baseline and maximum after a specified exposure time. It is commonly used as a measure of a drug's potency, and is similar in concept to the IC50 value, which measures the concentration of a drug required to inhibit a biological process by half.

The EC50 is a key quantitative measure that is used in dose-response relationships. It is used to compare the potency of different substances in producing a biological effect.

## Calculation

The EC50 is determined by observing the effect of different concentrations of a drug on a biological system. This is typically done in a laboratory setting using experimental models. The concentration of the drug that produces 50% of the maximum possible effect of the drug is the EC50.

## Interpretation

A lower EC50 indicates that a drug is more potent, as less of the drug is required to produce a given effect. Conversely, a higher EC50 indicates that more of the drug is required to produce the same effect, suggesting lower potency.

## Applications

The EC50 is widely used in drug development and pharmacological research. It is used to help determine the optimal dose of a drug, to compare the potency of different drugs, and to understand the pharmacodynamics of a drug.

## References

1. Kenakin T. (2009). A Pharmacology Primer: Theory, Applications, and Methods. Elsevier. ISBN 978-0-12-374585-9.
2. Sebaugh J. L. (2011). "Guidelines for accurate EC50/IC50 estimation". Pharmaceutical Statistics. 10 (2): 128–134. doi:10.1002/pst.426. PMID 20941763.
